# AIOps Explained
-----------------

* AIOps Defined
---------------
DevOps --> Development Operations
ITOps  --> IT Operations
BizOps --> Business Operations

AIOps
-----
AIOps combines big data and machine learning to automate IT operations processes, including event correlation, anomaly detection and causality determination.  --> Gartner.

A rtificial
I ntelligence

for 

IT

O perations

- In AIOps, we take existing IT operations, and integrate specialized AI systems that add intelligent data aggregation, signal processing and extraction, and ongoing analylsis.

- The goal of using AIOps is: 

	. Better observability of what's happening within the AI systems.
	. Optimization and lower cost of running the system.
	. Better prediction monitoring.
	. Remediation of issues within the system itself.
	. Leverages the power of machine learning and AI to improve IT operations.
	

* How AIOps works in the real world
-----------------------------------

- The ultimate goal of AIOPs is to automate routine tasks.

	. Mundane operation tasks. --> Freeing up IT personnel to focus on more strategic and high volume activities.

	. Analyzing modern IT infrastructure that generate vast amout of data and the AIOPs can quickly navigate through all those data and find the relevant insights.

	. One of the scenarios would be energy-efficient data center management. --> For decreasing the carbon footprint.

	. Machine Learning monitors the data for anomalies.

- There are two main levels.
	
	# First level
	-------------
	. Logging and tracing that happens across all services, hardware, software, and there are tons of logs, that have been collected by the IT teams.

	. Look at the logs to identify if there are possible issues happening.

		* This is connected with the system performance.

		* This is connected with the security aspect.

	. Create alerts.

	# Second level
	--------------
	. Why the problem could be happening.

	. Identify specific servers or instances.

	. Another field of impact of AIOps is in the intersection between IT operations, and the rest of the enterprise.

	. Assistance for non technical personnel.

	. Assistance is the state of development of AIOps today.

- What's comming up in the future?

	. More power reading all the complex information that is being generated.

	. Summarize information.

	. Looking up to the information stored by the system and check if a solution of a problem already exists.

	. Configure automatically a network Router, configure a network application, configure a switch.

	. Case of AIOPs shoud be treated as an investment inside of organizations.

- Getting the whole organization on board
	
	. Knowing where the needs are and finding the right solutions.

	. Quantify those needs.

	. Test the solutions and quantify the metrics.

	. Look at the business as a whole and its priorities.

		. Money saved
		. Time saved
		. Resources saved
		. Revenue brought in

	. Showcase value vs cost to the whole stakeholders.

	. Provide to everyone a holistic picture.

- IMPORTANT IDEAS
-----------------
When things go wrong, you need a human in the middle to troubleshoot.

Computers learn what we teach them to do.

We create the architectures, and solutions.

- AIOps
-------
Augmentation to human intelligence, not a replacement.

Continuous learning an improvement.

- AI BIAS
---------
Historical data may contain biases.

A system configured with biased data may consider that its configuration is normal.

Biases from historical data, can propagate into the AI system, and into the AIOps tools as well.



	




	
	































